Multilingual Dependency Analysis with a Two-Stage Discriminative Parser Abstract present a two-stage multilingual pendency parser and evaluate it on 13 diverse languages.
The first stage based on the unlabeled dependency parsing models described by McDonald and Pereira (2006) augmented with morphological features for a subset of the languages.
The second stage takes the output from the first and labels all the edges in the dependency graph with appropriate syntactic categories using a globally trained sequence classifier over components of the graph.
We report results on the CoNLL-X shared task (Buchholz et al., 2006) data sets and present an error analysis.
Conclusions We have presented results showing that the spanning tree dependency parsing framework of McDonald et al.
(McDonald et al., 2005b; McDonald and Pereira, 2006) generalizes well to languages other than English.
In the future we plan to extend these models in two ways.
First, we plan on examining the performance difference between two-staged dependency parsing (as presented here) and joint parsing plus labeling.
It is our hypothesis that for languages with fine-grained label sets, joint parsing and labeling will improve performance.
Second, we plan on integrating any available morphological features in a more principled manner.
The current system simply includes all morphological bi-gram features.
It is our hope that a better morphological feature set will help with both unlabeled parsing and labeling for highly inflected languages.
Introduce through post-processing, e.g., through reattachment rules (Bick, 2006) or if the change increases overall parse tree probability (McDonald et al., 2006).
Table 5 shows the official results for submitted parser outputs.
The two participant groups with the highest total score are McDonald et al.
(2006) and Nivre et al.
(2006).
Even though McDonald et al.
(2006) and Nivre et al.
(2006) obtained very similar overall scores, a more detailed look at their performance shows clear differences.