Pseudo-Projective Dependency Parsing Abstract In order to realize the full potential of dependency-based syntactic parsing, it is desirable to allow non-projective dependency structures.
We show how a datadriven deterministic dependency parser, in itself restricted to projective structures, can be combined with graph transformation techniques to produce non-projective structures.
Experiments using data from the Prague Dependency Treebank show that the combined system can handle nonprojective constructions with a precision sufficient to yield a significant improvement in overall parsing accuracy.
This leads to the best reported performance for robust non-projective parsing of Czech.
Conclusion We have presented a new method for non-projective dependency parsing, based on a combination of data-driven projective dependency parsing and graph transformation techniques.
The main result is that the combined system can recover non-projective dependencies with a precision sufficient to give a significant improvement in overall parsing accuracy, especially with respect to the exact match criterion, leading to the best reported performance for robust non-projective parsing of Czech.
Recent work by Nivre and Nilsson introduces a technique where the projectivization transformation is encoded in the nonterminals of constituents during parsing (Nivre and Nilsson, 2005).
1 http://sourceforge.net/projects/mstparser Figure 1: CoNLL-X dependency tree Figure 2: Penn Treebank-style phrase structure tree KSDEP Sagae and Tsujii (2007)'s dependency parser, based on a probabilistic shift-reduce algorithm extended by the pseudo-projective parsing technique (Nivre and Nilsson, 2005).
Bengoetxea and Gojenola (2010) discuss non-projective dependencies in Basque and show that the pseudo-projective transformation of Nivre and Nilsson (2005) improves accuracy for dependency parsing of Basque.
For tree banks with non-projective trees, we use the pseudo-projective parsing technique to transform the tree bank into projective structures (Nivre and Nilsson, 2005).
It uses graph transformation to handle non-projective trees (Nivre and Nilsson, 2005).
To simplify implementation, we instead opted for the pseudo-projective approach (Nivre and Nilsson, 2005), in which non-projective links are lifted upwards in the tree to achieve projectivity, and special trace labels are used to enable recovery of the non-projective links at parse time.
In O(n) time, producing a projective dependency graph satisfying conditions 1-4 in section 2.1, possibly after adding arcs (0, i, lr) for every node i ≠ 0 that is a root in the output graph (where lr is a special label for root modifiers).
Nivre and Nilsson (2005) showed how the restriction to projective dependency graphs could be lifted by using graph transformation techniques to preprocess training data and post-process parser output, so-called pseudo-projective parsing.