A Single Generative Model for Joint Morphological Segmentation and Syntactic Parsing Abstract Morphological processes in Semitic languages deliver space-delimited words which introduce multiple, distinct, syntactic units into the structure of the input sentence.
These words are in turn highly ambiguous, breaking the assumption underlying most parsers that the yield of a tree for a given sentence is known in advance.
Here we propose a single joint model for performing both morphological segmentation and syntactic disambiguation which bypasses the associated circularity.
Using a treebank grammar, a data-driven lexicon, and a linguistically motivated unknown-tokens handling technique our model outperforms previous pipelined, integrated or factorized systems for Hebrew morphological and syntactic processing, yielding an error reduction of 12% over the best published results so far.
Discussion and Conclusion Employing a PCFG-based generative framework to make both syntactic and morphological disambiguation decisions is not only theoretically clean and linguistically justified and but also probabilistically apropriate and empirically sound.
The overall performance of our joint framework demonstrates that a probability distribution obtained over mere syntactic contexts using a Treebank grammar and a data-driven lexicon outperforms upper bounds proposed by previous joint disambiguation systems and achieves segmentation and parsing results on a par with state-of-the-art standalone applications results.
Better grammars are shown here to improve performance on both morphological and syntactic tasks, providing support for the advantage of a joint framework over pipelined or factorized ones.
We conjecture that this trend may continue by incorporating additional information, e.g., three-dimensional models as proposed by Tsarfaty and Sima’an (2007).
In the current work morphological analyses and lexical probabilities are derived from a small Treebank, which is by no means the best way to go.
Using a wide-coverage morphological analyzer based on (Itai et al., 2006) should cater for a better coverage, and incorporating lexical probabilities learned from a big (unannotated) corpus (cf.
(Levinger et al., 1995; Goldberg et al., ; Adler et al., 2008)) will make the parser more robust and suitable for use in more realistic scenarios.
Acknowledgments We thank Meni Adler and Michael Elhadad (BGU) for helpful comments and discussion.
We further thank Khalil Simaan (ILLCUvA) for his careful advise concerning the formal details of the proposal.
The work of the first author was supported by the Lynn and William Frankel Center for Computer Sciences.
The work of the second author as well as collaboration visits to Israel was financed by NWO, grant number 017.001.271.
Finally, we note that simple weighting gives nearly a 2% F1 improvement, whereas Goldberg and Tsarfaty (2008) found that unweighted lattices were more effective for Hebrew.