Unsupervised Models for Named Entity Classification Collins Abstract This paper discusses the use of unlabeled examples for the problem of named entity classification.
A large number of rules is needed for coverage of the domain, suggesting that a fairly large number of labeled examples should be required to train a classi- However, we show that the use of data can reduce the requirements for supervision to just 7 simple &quot;seed&quot; rules.
The approach gains leverage from natural redundancy in the data: for many named-entity instances both the spelling of the name and the context in which it appears are sufficient to determine its type.
We present two algorithms.
The first method uses a similar algorithm to that of (Yarowsky 95), with modifications motivated by (Blum and Mitchell 98).
The second algorithm extends ideas from boosting algorithms, designed for supervised learning tasks, to the framework suggested by (Blum and Mitchell 98).
Conclusions Unlabeled examples in the named-entity classification problem can reduce the need for supervision to a handful of seed rules.
In addition to a heuristic based on decision list learning, we also presented a boosting-like framework that builds on ideas from (Blum and Mitchell 98).
The method uses a &quot;soft&quot; measure of the agreement between two classifiers as an objective function; we described an algorithm which directly optimizes this function.
We are currently exploring other methods that employ similar ideas and their formal properties.
Future work should also extend the approach to build a complete named entity extractor - a method that pulls proper names from text and then classifies them.
The contextual rules are restricted and may not be applicable to every example, but the spelling rules are generally applicable and should have good coverage.
The problem of &quot;noise&quot; items that do not fall into any of the three categories also needs to be addressed.
Co-training has been used before in applications like word-sense disambiguation (Yarowsky, 1995), web page classification (Blum and Mitchell, 1998), and named entity identification (Collins and Singer, 1999).
They also discuss an application of classifying web pages by using their method of mutually constrained models.